hi guys has been Heath from lead guru
and in this video I'm going to talk
about Facebook ad frequency before I get
into that I need to quickly explain the
background this is obviously not the
usual setting that you'll see me in when
I'm recording my videos I'm actually in
Calgary Canada for the next couple of
months a figured and with digital
marketer I can work from wherever in the
world so why not get out and see it well
that does mean is because I'm not in
London I don't have all my equipment so
videos will look a little bit different
for the next couple of months okay so
with that said let's get into it let's
get into Facebook ad frequency so ad
frequency is basically a number that
shows you how many times on average
people within your target audience have
seen your ad so let's say you've got an
ad frequency of five that means that on
average people within your target
audience within the options that you've
selected that you want to advertise to
have seen your ad five times so why is
this a number that you might want to pay
attention to you might want to make some
adjustments if that numbers too high
well before I get into that first thing
I'll say is if your campaign is
continuing to deliver great results if
you're generating a really good cost per
lead if you're generating a good cost
per sale then don't even bother worrying
about ad frequency it's not something
need to concern yourself with but if you
have seen results start to drop off
let's say you were generating a great
cost per conversion and recently results
have started to drop off one of the
reasons could be that your ad frequency
is getting too high and ad fatigue is
starting to set in so what I would say
is any an ad frequency of anything above
about a two maybe a two and a half is
when we usually start to see results
drop off particularly to cold audiences
and that's simply because by that point
if the average person within your target
audience has seen your ad twice that
probably means that most people that are
gonna go ahead and inquire and become a
lead or go ahead and make a purchase
they've seen the ad and they've either
already done so they've already taken
the design action or they're just not
interested not interested and they're
not going to be so once ad frequency
hits around about the to two and a half
mark that's usually where we look to
make some adjustments and there's a
bunch of different adjustments you can
make so obviously one often simple way
if you think that the offers really good
and the targeting is really good is to
change your ad creative so perhaps you
could record a different video you could
really change up the imagery and you
could change obviously the headline
things like that to try and keep things
fresh and make sure that you know you
people don't automatically switch off
because they go I've seen that before
and they scroll on to something else
that's one way changing up your ad
creative of really sort of overcoming
high ad frequency issues
another option is obviously to change
the targeting so let's say you've got an
offer that works really great you want
to keep advertising it but the people
that you're advertising it to they've
already seen it so you could try
advertising to different audiences and
then of course the other option if
you've got a really solid targeting it's
perhaps you could offer them something
else you could advertise a different
service that you offer a different
product or something along those lines
and because you really want to keep
advertising to that same group so those
are three options if you are seeing
results drop off and your ad frequency
numbers getting above that to two and a
half month that you may want to make
some adjustments now what I will say on
ad frequency is that if you're
advertising to warm audiences let's say
you're retargeting website visitors or
previous customers or something like
that maybe your email list and those
audiences often going to be much smaller
than cold audiences and the smaller the
audience the quicker your ad frequency
numbers will will increase and get to
that sort of level where you might start
to see a drop off from results so if
you're looking at if you're advertising
let's say your website visitors or your
email list and you've got an ad
frequency of you know two two and a half
thinking you need to make changes don't
worry about it for those warm smaller
custom audiences with those you can go
much much higher
there's not really a number at which you
might need to make adjustments you just
have to gauge it you just you can keep
it running and as to those people until
maybe you hit frequencies of nine ten
even as high as maybe fifteen I've seen
still a campaign still producing great
results when it's targeting really warm
audiences at 50 and AD frequency so I
will say that you know with those warm
audiences keep things and going a little
bit longer and just play it by it see
how the results go and then of course if
you're a local based business again if
you're local based business particularly
if you're very very local like some a
like a dentist where perhaps your target
market is just five miles from within
your location then again you're going to
hit add frequency issues a lot earlier
you may need to make some adjustments
you may also be able to run ads a little
bit longer because of those small
audiences so that's Facebook a frequency
really really simple and if you do start
to see a drop off from results make sure
you check it out really important
metrics I hope you enjoyed this video if
you did please leave leave a comment
below hit the thumbs up and of course
subscribe to my channel thanks a lot
guys bye bye
you